# The 1950's

## Menu Link
What people see on the website

[Navigation](/content/sections/navbar.md)


## Page Title
The Dawn of the Internet


### Description
To start our journey we are going to travel to the not so distant past of the
1950's where a psychology professor at MIT, JCR Licklider was helping fund a project known 
as the ARPANET which was esentially the first verson of the internet. From there the internet grew
at a reletively steady pace as people like Lenoard Kleinrock made advancements in computing.
Kleinrock was a graduate student at MIT at the time and was intrested in analyzing network speed by using queueing theory.
By doing this Kleinrock discovered how to speed up messages being transfered over a network by using demand access
and distributed control. Now before we continue we should discuss what excatly demand access and distributed control are.
To put it simply demand access basically says that a computer won't get any resource until it needs those resources. As for
distributed dcontrol it states that no one authority/device (switch, computer, server, etc.) should have complete control over
the entire network rather that every device should share the control of the network.




### Page Layout
We will be using the Z Pattern layout for this webpage.

### Page Content
Link to another markdown document with the page content
[Decades Overview](/content/decades)

[1960s](/content/decades/1960s.md)



### Page Image:

Page Image Link: https://www.webfx.com/blog/images/assets/images.sixrevisions.com/2010/03/06-08_ibm650.jpg (IBM 650)

Page Image Alt attribute: https://www.webfx.com/blog/images/assets/images.sixrevisions.com/2010/03/06-09_ramac.jpg (IBM 350 RAMAC)


### Keywords
Internet, 1950's, Retro Computing, Early Internet, ARPA, ARPANET
