# The 1960's

## Menu Link
What people see on the website

[Navigation](/content/sections/navbar.md)


## Page Title
The Beginnings of a New Age


### Description
The 1960's were a decade of progress, from the Civil Rights Movement to landing
a man on the moon, this time in history ushered in changes that are still felt to
this day. And the internet's development was no exception.

Following its dawn in the [1950s](/content/decades/1950s.md), the internet age
continued to move forward in the 1960s. Many Americans lived in fear of nuclear
attack from the USSR, and the US government was eager to invest in a new
communications network which would be robust enough to withstand being damaged.

Drawing inspiration from mice in a maze, Paul Baran created packet switching.
In this analogy, the mice are the data packets being transmitted by a sender and
the cheese at the end of the maze is the receiver. The mice are allowed to take
different paths through the maze, as long as they reach the cheese.

Unlike using the telephone network, which required a hard end-to-end between the
sender and receiver (called circuit switching), packet switching could withstand
and attack because the packets could re-route themselves if parts of the network
where destroyed.

But let's no get too gloomy, the 1960's were also about harmony and sharing. It's
a decade associated with the hippie movement after all.

During the 1960's, using a computer meant sharing it with any other people. End
users would work at a terminal and access a massive mainframe computer. But rather
than needing to wait their turn, these computers using a concept called time sharing,
where each user would receive a slice of time (only a few seconds). Sharing time,
meant that instructions could be queued up and sent to the computer by many users,
and it gave the feeling that everyone was using the computer at the same time.

While time sharing allowed many users to use one computer at once, there was still
no way for one user to use many computers at once. During the 1960's, Bob Taylor of the
Advanced Research Projects Agency (called "ARPA") came to this realization.
Bob's than keeping 3 terminals on his desk, wanted an easier way to communicate to
3 computers; he wanted to use 1 terminal that could connect to all 3 (or more) computers.

This realization would become a reality when his colleague, Larry Roberts built
the first network at MIT. The ARPANET (as it was known) of 1968 would become
today’s internet. It used a small, dedicated computer between each mainframe to
connect them. This allowed the mainframes to connect indirectly, enabling them to
share a standardized communication protocol. These small computers were called
Interface Message Processors (IMPs).

By 1969, there were 4 mainframe computers connected to ARPANET.
By April 1971, it had 18 mainframe computers and this momentum continued into the
[1970s](/content/decades/1970s.md) and beyond.



### Page Layout
We will be using the Z Pattern layout for this webpage.


### Page Content
Link to another markdown document with the page content

[Decades Overview](/content/decades)

[1970s](/content/decades/1970s.md)


### Page Image:

Page Image (1) Link:
https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/2/27/Paul_Baran.jpg

Page Image (1) Alt attribute:
Pual Baran, one of the two inventors of packet switching


Page Image (2) Link:
https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/e/e9/Larry_Roberts.jpg

Page Image (2) Alt attribute:
Lawrence Roberts, one of the creaters of the ARPANET.


### Page Music / Video

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VlrQ-bOzpkQ


### Keywords
ARPA, ARPANET, Pual Baran, Larry Roberts, IMPs, packet switching