# The 1970's

## Menu Link
What people see on the website

[Navigation](/content/sections/navbar.md)


## Page Title
Come Together Right Now ... TCP/IP


### Description
Now the advancements in computing during the 50's and 60's were extremely important, but without one advancement,
that was made during the 1970s, we might not have been able to communicate like we do today. The advancement that we are
speaking of is the invention of the TCP/IP protocol. To explain what exactly a protocol is it's a well know set of rules and
standards that are used to allow communication between computers. This all began in 1973 when Vint Cerf and Bob Kahn
were working on the ARPANET, the ARPANET was esentially the prototype for the internet, and were looking for a way to get
different networks to comunicte with each other. Before we go any further we need to explain the difference between the two major
types of networks which are WAN networks and LAN networks. A LAN, local access network, can be thought of as the private network
that you have in your house/apartment/condo where as a WAN ,wireless access network, can be thought of as the connection of
several LANs. Now Kahn and Cerf knew that in order to get this to work they would need a special computer that is called a gateway
which is a computer in the network that knew the TCP/IP protocol which allowed the computer to communicate with each other. Not
long after the invention of the TCP/IP protocol Bill Gates dropped out of Harvard in order to co-found Microsoft which we will 
talk more in depth about in the [1990s](/content/decades/1990s.md). Even though the invention of TCP/IP was a crucial part of the
development of the internet it wouldn't be adopted as the universial standard until the [1980s](/content/decades/1980s.md).

### Page Layout
We will be using the Z Pattern layout for this webpage.

### Page Content
Link to another markdown document with the page content

[Decades Overview](/content/decades)

[1980s](/content/decades/1980s.md)


### Page Image:

Page Image Link:  https://www.invent.org/sites/default/files/styles/inductee_detail_media/public/inductees/239-master_0.jpg?h=754009f3&itok=SfFsgwsc (Bob Kahn)
https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/6b/Dr_Vint_Cerf_ForMemRS.jpg/220px-Dr_Vint_Cerf_ForMemRS.jpg (Vint Cerf)

Page Image Alt attribute:
https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/8/85/ARPANET_1970_Map.png (ARPANET network during the 1970s)


### Keywords
TCP/IP, Bob Kahn, Vint Cerf, Gateway, ARPANET
