# The 1990's

## Menu Link
What people see on the website

[Navigation](/content/sections/navbar.md)


## Page Title
This is how we grew it


### Description

As we enter the 1990s we will see the internet start to take shape into what it is today. Many major household names like
Microsoft, Amazon, and eBay became major players in the world of computing and the internet during the 90s. To start we'll look at
one of the most important decisions ever made about the future of the internet. On June 9th 1992 congress passed a bill taking the
internet out of the exclusive hands of the government and into the hands of the public. A year after this decision
Marc Andreessen developed one of the worlds first graphical web browsers, Mosaic. Before the release of Andreessen's browser
there were only 50 web pages that existed on the internet, but after the release of his browser the web grew by 341,000%.
Soon after the development of Andreessen's browser many companies were racing to build their own that
way they could have a chance to increase their profits using the internet, which helped cause the start of the dot com bubble.
But, there were two companies in particular that were major players in early browser development, Netscape and
Microsoft. By the fall of 1994 netscape released their Navigator online browser which saw a surge of popularity by improving on
Andreessen's Mosaic browser. The following year ,1995, in December Netscape had its IPO, initial public offering, on the New York
stock echange where the value of the young company's stock skyrocketed immedietly. Unfotrunetly the success of Netscape's navigator browser
didn't last long as Microsoft released the first version of Internet Explorer that same December. This would cause more tension
between the two companies because Microsoft started development on Internet Explorer in order to "destroy"
netscape and their navigator browser since the companies had been clashing. The two companies were clashing so much at the time
that during the development of Internet explorer that Microsoft's stratgey was to observe what Netscape was doing and to imitate it.
Almost two years later in September of 1997 Microsoft had succeded in its goal of "destroying" netscape and their navigator
browser. Their goal of destroying netscape would end up backfiring on Microsoft though because in 1998 the US DOJ, Department of Justice, started an anti-trust
lawsuit against Microsoft. The reason for the lawsuit was for the exclusionary and predatory pratices that Microsoft used 
in order to deny people access to Netscape's product.They were able to do this because by 1993 90% of personal 
computers were running Microsoft Windows as the operating system whcih allowed Microsoft to strong arm PC producers 
to exclude the installation of Navigator on newly produced PCs. It would take two long years before the
verdict was delivered but Microsoft had been found guilty of their predidory business practices.
With the guilty verdict a judge order that Microsoft be broken up however Microsoft went and filed an appeal
on the ruling and succeeded thus the order to break up the company was rescinded however the guilty verdict still remained.
After the end of Microsfot's lengthy case with the DOJ Bill Gates stepped down as the Microsoft CEO and Steve Balmer 
stepped into the position. As the 1990s were wrapping up the stage was set for an economic disaster on a massive scale. This was
due to the dot com bubble being close to bursting because by 1999 more than 250 internet companies had an IPO even though
a lot of them were destined to fail due to the company not having any real business strategy or plan. This would all come to a
on April 4th [2000](/content/decades/2000s.md) also know as black friday but we will talk more about that as we enter the [2000s](/content/decades/2000s.md)


### Page Layout
We will be using the Z Pattern layout for this webpage.

### Page Content
Link to another markdown document with the page content


[Decades Overview](/content/decades)

[1980s](/content/decades/1980s.md)

[2000s](/content/decades/2000s.md)


### Page Image:

Page Image Link:
https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/a8/Bill_Gates_2017_%28cropped%29.jpg/220px-Bill_Gates_2017_%28cropped%29.jpg (Bill Gates)

https://thumbor.forbes.com/thumbor/fit-in/416x416/filters%3Aformat%28jpg%29/https%3A%2F%2Fspecials-images.forbesimg.com%2Fimageserve%2F5bb22ae84bbe6f67d2e82e05%2F0x0.jpg%3Fbackground%3D000000%26cropX1%3D524%26cropX2%3D1824%26cropY1%3D185%26cropY2%3D1486 (Jeff Bezos)

https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/9/94/Marc_Andreessen-9.jpg/240px-Marc_Andreessen-9.jpg (Marc Andreessen)

Page Image Alt attribute:
https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/4/44/Steve_Ballmer_2014.jpg/220px-Steve_Ballmer_2014.jpg (Steve Ballmer)

### Page Music / Video
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0hiUuL5uTKc


### Keywords
Microsoft, Amazon, Netscape, DotCom Bubble, Steve Balmer, DOJ, Bill Gates
