# The 2000's

## Menu Link
What people see on the website

[Navigation](/content/sections/navbar.md)


## Page Title
What Goes Up, Must Come Down


### Description
In February 2000, Alan Greenspan of the Federal Reserve began raising interest rates,
putting pressure on the internet bubble to slow down.

On March 10, 2000, the sky high stock market valuations of the [1990s](/content/decades/1990s.md)
reached its top when the NASDAQ index peaked at $5,048.62. Soon after, concerns of a recession
started to build and the stock market began to experience a major sell off. The bottom
 of the stock market bust was on October 9, 2002, where the NASDAQ index dropped to
 $1,114-- down 78% from its peak.

Many of the hot technology start ups from the 1990s were swallowed up by the Dot Com Bust.
However, the companies that survived the crash were those with a long term vision
and deep focus on their customers. Among the survivors were Amazon, Google, and eBay.

While the stock market crashed, a new type of economy emerged in the 2000's; it
would become known as the sharing economy.

During the late 1990s and early 2000s, Napster (founded by Shawn Fanning and Sean Parker) became
an online community as people who shared music interests. Napster was a music file
sharing service where users could freely exchange MP3 music files for free.

Unfortunately for Napster, Hilary Rosen, the former head of the Recording Industry
Association of America (RIAA) was quick to have copyright legislation passed in July 2001.
This made Napster's music sharing illegal and they had to be shut down immediately.

However, after the shutdown of Napster, Apple was inspired to make the iTunes store to
sell songs at 99 cents each.

And fortunately for Sean Parker, he was able to ride the next wave of the sharing
economy -- social media.

MySpace launched in 2003 (created by Tom Anderson and Chris DeWolfe). It became extremely
popular since it was a social network. Then, MySpace was quickly replaced uprooted by
Facebook, created by Mark Zuckerberg, who appointed Sean Parker has the company's first president.



### Page Layout
We will be using the Z Pattern layout for this webpage.


### Page Content
Link to another markdown document with the page content

[Decades Overview](/content/decades)

[1970s](/content/decades/1990s.md)

[1990s](/content/decades/2010s.md)


### Page Image:

Page Image (1) Link:
https://www.logodatabases.com/files/wp-content/uploads/2012/06/Napster_Logo-500x475.png

Page Image (1) Alt attribute:
The Napster logo

Page Image (2) Link:
https://www.logolynx.com/images/logolynx/ed/ed21cf41058a819d12687792b103dacc.jpeg

Page Image (2) Alt attribute:
The original Facebook logo from 2005


### Page Music / Video

https://youtu.be/zx5tSmOY_iM


### Keywords
Dot Com Bust, NASDAQ, Google, Napster, Facebook