# The 2010's

## Menu Link
What people see on the website

[Navigation](/content/sections/navbar.md)


## Page Title
The Social Era


### Description

As we enter the 2010s we will see many of the ways we use the internet really take off and become what they are today.
This was helped by the invention of the smartphone which allowed people to finally take the internet with them
wherever they went. By allowing people to access the internet wherever they are this
allowed social media companies like Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram to becme widly popular. The popularity of social media
grew so fast that by the summer of 2012 Facebook had reached 1 billion active monthy users making it the first internet site
to reach that many active monthy users as well as making it the dominante social media platform. We also saw the introduction of
the IPv6 protocol whcih replaced the IPv4 protocl giving us  3.4 x 10^38 unique IP addresses instead of the 4,294,967,296 that IPv4
provided. This was a critical change that the internet needed because with the popularity of smartphones and personal computers
increasing the number of IP addresses in IPv4 wasn't enough and we needed to be able to assigne unique IPs to those newly made phones and computers.
During the 2010s we can also atribute the growth and popularity of the internet to video streaming being invented which allowed 
people to watch content from Netflix, Youtube, and other platforms anywhere they went. 
Overall there were some big changes and inovations that happened in the 2010s from the explosion of social media to solving 
the problem of running out of IP addresses for devices connected to the internet. Heading into the [2020s](/content/decades/2020s.md)
we will see how the internet continues to grow and what inovations people are working on in order to improve the internet.


### Page Layout
We will be using the Z Pattern layout for this webpage.

### Page Content
Link to another markdown document with the page content
[Decades Overview](/content/decades)

[2000s](/content/decades/2000s.md)

[2020s](/content/decades/2020s.md)



### Page Image:

Page Image Link:
https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/1/18/Mark_Zuckerberg_F8_2019_Keynote_%2832830578717%29_%28cropped%29.jpg/220px-Mark_Zuckerberg_F8_2019_Keynote_%2832830578717%29_%28cropped%29.jpg (Mark Zuckerburge)


Page Image Alt attribute:
https://www.citypng.com/public/uploads/preview/-51610747698q6h7kki2rz.png (Facebook and Instagram Logo)


### Page Music / Video
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YAhK_84RYjQ

### Keywords
Facebook, Instagram, Twitter, Social Media, Smartphone, Youtube, Netflix
