# The 2020's

## Menu Link
What people see on the website

[Navigation](/content/sections/navbar.md)


## Page Title
And the Journey Continues

### Description
As we enter the 2020's, we begin this decade with many questions about:
  - Internet Privacy
  - Free Speech & Censorship
  - Social Media echo chambers
  - Racial Injustice
  - Income Inequality
  - Political Polarization
  - Climate Change

Advances in the field of Machine Learning and Data Science continue to progress.
These technologies have the potential for drawing deep insights, but how will we
take action on these insights? And which issues should we focus all this computing
power on?

As of April 24, 2020, the "FAANGM" stocks (comprised of Facebook, Amazon,
  Apple, Netflix, Google, Microsoft) made up 22.8% of the S&P 500; meaning of the top 500
companies in the USA, Big Tech has almost a quarter of the market share. Will
they be regulated? Have they grown too powerful? Is customer data this valuable?
Why is data so valuable?

Whether, we love it or not, social media is here to stay. It has the potential to
either become a tool for harmony and understanding or hate and division. Thankfully,
this fate is up to us.



### Page Layout
We will be using the Z Pattern layout for this webpage.


### Page Content
Link to another markdown document with the page content

[Decades Overview](/content/decades)

[2010s](/content/decades/2010s.md)




### Page Image:

Page Image Link: https://media.npr.org/assets/img/2021/03/23/big-tech-3up_wide-57954f90a55f98f5703820bec8eadb88c03327ae-s1600-c85.webp

Page Image Alt attribute: Google's Sundar Pichai, Facebook's Mark Zuckerberg and Twitter's Jack Dorsey


### Page Music / Video

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XXYlFuWEuKI

### Keywords
Social Media, Machine Learning, Data Science, Big Tech